add cache docs (#172)
mautic/developer-documentation-new: docs/components/cache.rst

Cache
#####

Symfony makes heavy use of a filesystem cache. When developing for Mautic, clearing the cache is a regular occurrence. By default, Mautic instances have the cache located in ``var/cache/ENV`` where ``ENV`` is the environment currently accessed (``dev`` or ``prod``). To rebuild the cache, delete the relevant ``ENV`` folder within the cache directory, or run the Symfony command ``php bin/console cache:clear --env=ENV``. If a specific environment isn't passed to the command via ``--env=ENV``, Mautic uses the ``dev`` environment by default.

> In the ``dev`` environment, Mautic doesn't cache translations, views, and Assets. However, changes to these files require clearing the cache for them to take effect in the ``prod`` environment. Changes to Mautic config files, Symfony config files, etc., require clearing of the cache regardless of the environment.

Reviewer: Looks like extra comma after `views,`

Also shouldn't `Assets` => `assets`?

Reviewer 2: Thanks for taking the time to review @joshirohit100 much appreciated!

The extra comma is the 'oxford comma' which we apply in our docs - it comes from the [Google Technical Writing Styleguide](https://developers.google.com/style/commas).

Also, for any part of Mautic, we capitalise the name - to make it clear we're talking about the 'thing' in Mautic rather than just using the term in passing reference. In this case indeed it should be lower case because we're referring to assets like the CSS, JS etc rather than the Assets like files which are tracked in Mautic. As the linter will complain about this I'd suggest we turn off the linter for this paragraph (of course, once we're happy the rest of the text is passing!) which you can do with `.. vale off` and `.. vale on` with clear lines above and below each statement.

You can use this button to make a suggested change:

![screenshot-github com-2024 01 22-13_45_11](https://github.com/mautic/developer-documentation-new/assets/2930593/5fdc0e93-b5f6-443b-83c2-286f32c4b32d)

which makes it easier for the author to apply quickly. It looks like this:

```suggestion

.. vale off

In the ``dev`` environment, Mautic doesn't cache translations, views, and assets. However, changes to these files require clearing the cache for them to take effect in the ``prod`` environment. Changes to Mautic config files, Symfony config files, etc., require clearing of the cache regardless of the environment.

.. vale on
```

The typical rule of thumb is, if Mautic isn't acting as you expect after making changes, try clearing your cache. If you get ``class could not be found`` or ``cannot redeclare class`` errors when using the ``cache:clear`` command, manually delete the ``var/cache/ENV`` folder then run the command and/or browse to the site to rebuild.

Cache bundle
************

> Enables PSR-6 and PSR-16 caching. Check :xref:`Symfony Cache Component`

Reviewer: in preview mode in github, this is showing like `[:xref:`Symfony Cache Component`](https://github.com/fakela/developer-documentation-new/blob/cache/docs/components/cache.rst#id1)`

Reviewer 2: We use Gitpod for previewsing because it allows us to render the entire docs.

Here's some documentation on how to use Gitpod (we should really write this up for the docs!): https://contribute.mautic.org/contributing-to-mautic/tester#the-easy-way-using-gitpod

When you open it up in Gitpod you'll see the button top right to preview:

![screenshot-fakela-developerdocumen-p4sgachbel9 ws-eu107 gitpod io-2024 01 22-13_50_56](https://github.com/mautic/developer-documentation-new/assets/2930593/5d52f9bc-4364-49b1-9f31-94ae83c55280)

It then looks like this:

![screenshot-fakela-developerdocumen-p4sgachbel9 ws-eu107 gitpod io-2024 01 22-13_51_56](https://github.com/mautic/developer-documentation-new/assets/2930593/0f7fbd8d-2911-440e-8ff3-dad18d923642)

It's pretty handy to check out the layout quickly, and also to test out what changes would look like! You can't use the nav on the left, or the search, in preview mode - you'd have to open the relevant file and preview it again.

Hope that helps! (you can also build locally if you prefer, the docs are in the readme for the repo).

Namespace versus tag
====================

This bundle introduces tags to the cache. All its adapters are fully tag aware which makes the use of namespace obsolete for daily use.

Previously, if you wanted to keep control on cache section and didn't want to hold the index of all keys to clear, you would have to use namespace.

The main disadvantage of this approach is that Mautic creates a new adapter for each namespace.

From Symfony 3.4, the cache uses tag-aware adapters. If you want to clear all records related to your Bundle or Component, you just need to tag them.

.. code-block:: php
    /** @var CacheProvider $cache */
    $cache = $this->get('mautic.cache.provider');
    /** @var CacheItemInterface $item */
    $item = $cache->getItem('test_tagged_Item');
    $item->set('yesa!!!');
    $item->tag(['firstTag', 'secondTag']);
    $item->expiresAfter(20000);
All you need to do now is to clear all tagged items:

.. code-block:: php

>     $cache->invalidateTags(['firstTag']);

Reviewer: This code block atleast not showing in https://github.com/fakela/developer-documentation-new/blob/cache/docs/components/cache.rst in preview mode. Is this correct?

Reviewer 2: It will show when you preview in Gitpod or locally (see earlier comment with how-to!)

Pools clearing
==============

Removing cache items
--------------------

Cache Pools include methods to delete a cache item, some of them, or all of them. The most common is ``Psr\\Cache\\CacheItemPoolInterface::deleteItem``, which deletes the cache item identified by the given key.

.. code-block:: php

>     $isDeleted = $cache->deleteItem('user_'.$userId);

Reviewer: same as https://github.com/mautic/developer-documentation-new/pull/172/files#r1461821085

> Use the ``Psr\\Cache\\CacheItemPoolInterface::deleteItems`` method to delete several cache items simultaneously - it returns true only if all the items have been deleted, even when any or some of them don't exist:

Reviewer: `exist:` => `exist.` -> full stop missing

```suggestion
Use the ``Psr\\Cache\\CacheItemPoolInterface::deleteItems`` method to delete several cache items simultaneously - it returns true only if all the items have been deleted, even when any or some of them don't exist.
```

Reviewer 2: Good catch! Would you like to do a 'suggestion' here to help the writer make the change more quickly? You can edit the review, I think.

Cache
#####

> Symfony makes heavy use of a filesystem cache. When developing for Mautic, clearing the cache is a regular occurrence. By default, Mautic instances have the cache located in ``var/cache/ENV`` where ``ENV`` is the environment currently accessed (``dev`` or ``prod``). To rebuild the cache, delete the relevant ``ENV`` folder within the cache directory, or run the Symfony command ``php bin/console cache:clear --env=ENV``. If a specific environment isn't passed to the command via ``--env=ENV``, Mautic uses the ``dev`` environment by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Symfony makes heavy use of a filesystem cache. When developing for Mautic, clearing the cache is a regular occurrence. By default, Mautic instances have the cache located in ``var/cache/ENV`` where ``ENV`` is the environment currently accessed - ``dev`` or ``prod``. To rebuild the cache, delete the relevant ``ENV`` folder within the cache directory, or run the Symfony command ``php bin/console cache:clear --env=ENV``. If a specific environment isn't passed to the command via ``--env=ENV``, Mautic uses the ``dev`` environment by default.
```

Vale suggestion

.. vale off

In the ``dev`` environment, Mautic doesn't cache translations, views, and assets. However, changes to these files require clearing the cache for them to take effect in the ``prod`` environment. Changes to Mautic config files, Symfony config files, etc., require clearing of the cache regardless of the environment.

.. vale on

> The typical rule of thumb is, if Mautic isn't acting as you expect after making changes, try clearing your cache. If you get ``class could not be found`` or ``cannot redeclare class`` errors when using the ``cache:clear`` command, manually delete the ``var/cache/ENV`` folder then run the command and/or browse to the site to rebuild.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The typical rule of thumb is, if Mautic isn't acting as you expect after making changes, try clearing your cache. If you get ``class could not be found`` or ``cannot redeclare class`` errors when using the ``cache:clear`` command, manually delete the ``var/cache/ENV`` folder - replacing ENV with the environment eg ``dev`` or ``prod`` - then run the command and/or browse to the site to rebuild.
```

I think we should emphasise this for the copy/paste warriors out there! 🙈

Cache bundle
************

Enables PSR-6 and PSR-16 caching. Check :xref:`Symfony Cache Component`

Namespace versus tag
====================

This bundle introduces tags to the cache. All its adapters are fully tag aware which makes the use of namespace obsolete for daily use.

Previously, if you wanted to keep control on cache section and didn't want to hold the index of all keys to clear, you would have to use namespace.

The main disadvantage of this approach is that Mautic creates a new adapter for each namespace.

From Symfony 3.4, the cache uses tag-aware adapters. If you want to clear all records related to your Bundle or Component, you just need to tag them.

> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php

```

Pretty sure code blocks require a line break between the directive: https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/code_blocks.html#show-example-code - maybe that's why it's trying to lint the content?

    /** @var CacheProvider $cache */
    $cache = $this->get('mautic.cache.provider');
    /** @var CacheItemInterface $item */
    $item = $cache->getItem('test_tagged_Item');
    $item->set('yesa!!!');
    $item->tag(['firstTag', 'secondTag']);

>     $item->expiresAfter(20000);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    $item->expiresAfter(20000);
    
```

You also need to leave a gap after the end of the code block, otherwise the code block is invalid.

All you need to do now is to clear all tagged items:

> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php

```

As above, code blocks require a line after the directive to be left blank. This auto-completes in most IDEs, please use Gitpod or VSCode which should highlight your syntax errors.

    $cache->invalidateTags(['firstTag']);
Pools clearing
==============

Removing cache items
--------------------

Cache Pools include methods to delete a cache item, some of them, or all of them. The most common is ``Psr\\Cache\\CacheItemPoolInterface::deleteItem``, which deletes the cache item identified by the given key.

> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php

```

As previous!

    $isDeleted = $cache->deleteItem('user_'.$userId);
Use the ``Psr\\Cache\\CacheItemPoolInterface::deleteItems`` method to delete several cache items simultaneously - it returns true only if all the items have been deleted, even when any or some of them don't exist.

Configuration
-------------

Plugins come preconfigured to utilize filesystem caching.

These are the default settings:

> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php

```

As previous

    'cache_adapter' => 'mautic.cache.adapter.filesystem',
    'cache_prefix' => 'app',
    'cache_lifetime' => 86400
They can be overridden in ``local.php`` like this:

> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php

```

As previous

    'cache_adapter'  => 'mautic.cache.adapter.redis',
    'cache_prefix'   => 'app_cache',
    'cache_lifetime' => 86400,

> Delivered adapters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Delivered adapters
```

------------------

- ``mautic.cache.adapter.filesystem``
- ``mautic.cache.adapter.memcached``

.. code-block:: php
    'memcached' => [
        'servers' => ['memcached://localhost'],
        'options' => [
            'compression' => true,
            'libketama_compatible' => true,
            'serializer' => 'igbinary',
        ],

>     ],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ],
    
```

- ``mautic.cache.adapter.redis``

Redis configuration in ``local.php``:

> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php

```

    'redis' => [
        'dsn' => 'redis://localhost',
        'options' => [
            'lazy' => false,
            'persistent' => 0,
            'persistent_id' => null,
            'timeout' => 30,
            'read_timeout' => 0,
            'retry_interval' => 0,
        ],

>     ],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ],
    
```

In order to use another adapter, just set it up as a service.

Clearing the cache
------------------

> When the ``cache:clear`` command is run, Mautic's cache is cleared. The cache can be cleared by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``cache:clear`` command clears Mautic's cache. Use this command:
```

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: bash

```
